Oxford Bookworms, Stage 1. A Ghost in Love
and Other Plays by Michael Dean.
Published and Copyright Oxford University Press 2007.
One Ghost for the Day, One Ghost for
the Night.
Performed by Ben Elliott, Lawrence Kennedy, Sarem Arthland,
Coraline Sheldon, and Terry Wilton.
One Ghost for the Day, One Ghost for
the Night.
Seen one, a ghost comes to Richard Little.
The year is 1653.
It is a cold, dark winter night.
And Richard Little, a man of forty, is
sitting in his chair.
He is reading a book.
He hears something.
He goes to the window, looks out, and
then goes back to the chair.
His wife Mary comes in.
She is making a dress.
She has the dress in her hand.
Mary, I can hear something outside.
There's nothing there.
Read your book, Richard.
Come and sit with me.
No, I'm making a dress.
I'm going upstairs.
Mary, please.
There's something out there.
Oh, Richard.
Hello, Richard.
Ah!
You!
James!
James Heston!
But you... you are dead.
Yes.
I am dead.
But I can't find peace because of you.
Because of me.
Why?
Why because of me?
Beth had a new husband after me.
That animal, Keach.
Yes.
Beth was a good woman and a good
sister to me.
I said to her, don't go with Keach.
Think of James.
He's dead now.
She was Keach's wife for only three months.
Then she died.
And now Keach has my son.
And he has my son's money.
Ah!
I understand now.
Oh!
You remember now.
Before I died, I said to you,
my boy gets my money at twenty-one
and not before.
He is eight now.
Eight.
And Keach has his money.
I'm sorry about that.
But what can I do?
You must get my boy's money.
Get it from Keach.
No.
Keach can kill me with one hand.
He's big.
He always has a knife in his pocket.
Last year he killed a man with that
knife.
I'm afraid of him, James.
Are you afraid of me?
No.
Oh.
Yes, a little.
You're a ghost.
Only a little, eh?
Look at the table.
Oh no.
The table is moving.
Oh.
The chair is moving now.
And now my chair is moving.
James.
Don't do this to me.
At this minute, Keach is building a new
home in a village near here,
with my son's money.
Stop him.
I'm sorry, James.
I can't.
I didn't want.
That was my hand, but...
James, can you get in my head?
Can you tell my hand?
Yes, Richard.
And your answer is going to be yes.
Or you are going to do this again
and again and again and...
I'm going mad.
Why does my hand throw a book when
I don't want to?
Can all dead people do this?
Can they get into man's head so he
moves a chair or throws a book?
Oh yes.
Now, I can do it to you again.
Or you can say yes and get my
son's money.
Which?
But how?
How can I get the money from Keach?
Sit down.
I'm going to tell you.
Scene two.
David Keach in court.
In the court we can see Judge Tim's,
Keach, Barker, Reynolds, Richard and Mary.
There are six women and six men behind
Keach.
They are from the village and they are
watching the trial.
Judge Tim's is in a big chair in
front of the court.
My name is Oliver Barker and I speak
for Richard Little here today.
Judge Tim's.
I speak for David Keach here today.
My name is Philip Reynolds.
That Keach took the boy's money.
You can see it in his face.
Oh, Lil.
We must listen to Oliver Barker and Philip
Reynolds first.
Keach is the boy Tom's father now.
A good father doesn't take his son's money
and build a new house with it.
Be quiet in my court.
Sorry.
Oliver Barker.
You can begin.
Judge Tim's.
Before James Heston died, he said this to
Richard Little.
He said, my boy gets my money at
21 and not before.
At 21 and not before.
Yes, Judge.
But Keach has this money now.
The boy's money.
He is building a big house with it.
We all know that.
Put Keach in prison, I say.
Five years.
No.
Ten.
You.
Don't eat in my court.
Philip Reynolds.
Speak.
Judge Tim's.
Yes, there is a house in a village
near here.
And yes, it is Keach's house.
But the money for it is not young
Tom's money.
Not Tom's money.
No, Judge Tim's.
It is David Keach's money.
So one day Keach is not rich.
And the next day he is rich.
He has money for a house.
Call David Keach.
David Keach.
Where is the boy Tom's money?
Do you have it at home?
No.
Keach took the money.
It was Keach.
I said Keach took the money.
I said that yesterday.
I have the money here.
In this court.
The money here.
Keach didn't teach.
In this court.
The money is under my chair.
You, woman.
Bring me the money.
Me?
Yes, you.
Here you are.
Here.
Judge Tim's.
Richard Little.
Here.
Look, everybody.
Here is the money.
So I didn't take it from the boy.
You hear me, Richard Little?
Yes.
One minute.
Richard Little.
Yes, Judge Tim's.
You said Keach took the boy's money.
You said that.
Why?
Why man?
Why say that?
Because...
Because James Heston came to my home.
James Heston said it to me.
James Heston?
He said it.
Because James Heston's dead.
Richard Little.
James Heston is dead.
He died in 1651.
He taught with me.
Oh man.
Judge Tim's.
My husband is ill.
In our house.
He talks to people.
And there is nobody there.
Can I take him home now, please?
I am not ill.
Stop laughing.
Be quiet.
All of you.
Sit down, Mary.
Thank you.
Yes, James Heston is dead.
And yes, James Heston spoke to me.
I want James Heston here.
Now, he can tell you...
He is ill.
He's mad.
Let's listen to him.
Yes, we can listen to him.
Be quiet.
Call James Heston.
I say, call James Heston to this court.
Heston is dead man.
And Richard Little is mad.
Call James Heston.
I am James Heston.
Oh, he's dead.
He's dead.
No.
Oh, please.
It's Heston.
Oh, the brain.
Oh, it's Heston dead.
James Heston.
Is it you?
Did you speak to Richard Little?
Yes.
What did you say?
I told him.
Keech took my boy's money.
And then Keech killed a man in the
next village.
He was a rich man.
Keech took his money.
You see the money now?
Here, in this court.
I can't kill Heston.
Heston is dead.
But you.
You, Richard Little.
You brought me to this court.
I'm going to kill you next.
Stop him.
It was Keech.
Keech took the money.
I said that.
I said Keech took the money.
This court says Keech took the money.
And Keech killed the man.
Now find David Keech and bring him to
me.
Scene three.
Keech finds Richard Little.
Richard is sitting in his chair at home.
What's that?
Can I hear something?
Mary?
Is that you?
Oh no.
It's not James again.
James?
Is that you?
Oh no.
Keech, please.
No.
Oh no.
Not Richard.
Not my darling.
Darling, Richard.
Keech killed him.
You're going to go to prison for this,
Keech.
Scene four.
A visit for Keech in prison.
Keech is in prison.
He is sitting on his bed.
He has a table, a chair, and a
book there too.
Hello?
What's that?
Is there someone there?
My table.
My table is moving.
Now the bed is moving.
Am I ill?
Oh my head.
Oh.
Now the chair is moving.
What's happening?
Why did I do that?
Am I mad?
It was my hand, but...
You're dead.
I killed you.
Yes.
I'm dead.
And you killed me.
But I'm not going away.
I'm staying here in prison with you.
You can't hit me now.
You can't hit a ghost.
And you can't kill me again.
But we can talk.
We have time for that.
We have all day.
And you can do that all day too.
All day?
All the time?
Yes.
Now throw the book across the room again.
And again.
Oh no.
Please.
Are all my days going to be like
this?
Your days.
Yes.
And for your nights.
I have a friend here.
Hello Richard.
Hello David.
You.
You here too.
Yes.
David throw the book across the room please.
Thank you.
I'm going to be here at night David.
And you have Richard here every day.
All right.
Oh no.
No.
One ghost for the day.
One ghost for the night.
Now throw the book across the room again.
Then.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha.
Sleep Now My Darling.
Performed by Ben Cowan.
Candida Gabbins.
Fiona Molison.
Vince Nichols.
And Chris Rowe.
Sleep Now My Darling. Scene One. Jenny must
stay at home. It is a hot summer
day. Jenny
and Gilbert Lawson are having breakfast at a
table in their garden. Gilbert is reading
a book. Gilbert, can I come with you
to America? What? Oh, Gilbert, please listen to
me. I said
can I come to America too? This is
good, Brad. Did you make it? Yes. Gilbert,
I said can I come
with you. No, Jenny. You have work here.
There's the house, the garden. I remember my
new friend. It
was your best film. It was my best
film too. They were happy days. Yes. I
watched my new friend
again last week. It's the best Gilbert Lawson
film. And you were good in it, my
love. You're a good
actress. The film had a good director. Gilbert
Lawson. Oh, thank you. But now I have
this new film. So I must
go to America for six weeks. Gilbert, can
I be in this film too? I want
to be an actress again.
Perhaps next time. Would you like that? Perhaps
you can be in the next film. You
said that before. Did I? Yes. This
bread is very good. Can we go to
America together then? Not for a film. Just
you and me. Perhaps next year. Perhaps. Next
year then. Yes. Next year. Love
I must go now. I'm going to be
late for the plane. I love you, Jenny.
I love you too, darling.
Scene two. Jenny talks to a film student.
It is six weeks later. Jenny is having
a coffee at the airport.
She is waiting for Gilbert's plane. A young
man, Henry, sees her. Henry has a big
bag in his hand.
Hello? Are you Jenny Lawson? Yes. I knew
it. Here you are. And do you want
something? Thanks. Sorry,
but do I know you? A Coke for
me, please. And a sandwich. One Coke, one
sandwich. Oh, sorry. Yes,
I know your film. My new friend. And
I know Gilbert. Can I sit down? You
can't stand up and
have a Coke into sandwich. Wait a minute.
I know you. I know your face. But
I can't remember. Tell me,
how do you know Gilbert? I'm learning about
his work. I know all the Gilbert Lawson
films.
But forget about me. I want to talk
about you. You aren't happy. I can see
that.
What? You can't say that. A Coke and
a sandwich. Thank you. That's okay.
The sandwich is very good. I had them
for lunch sometimes.
Yes, you're right. It's very good. Thank you.
That's okay. Goodbye then.
I must go soon. What do you do
every day? What? I don't know you. You
can't ask me.
Jenny, please. Tell me. What do you do
every day?
Okay. Here's your answer. I get up in
the morning and then I do nothing. We
have no children.
A woman does the house for me. A
man does the garden. Do you have friends?
Yes. No.
I have coffee with people. I have dinner
with people. We say things like nice weather
for the
family. Now I'm going to tell you about
me. I'm 20. I go to America sometimes.
I have friends. I like films, so I
make films. I'm happy. What about you?
I was happy when I was an actress.
There. There's your answer. Be an actress again.
Jenny Lawson. Laura. What are you doing here?
Waiting for Gilbert.
And who is this? My name is Henry.
I'm a film student. Sit down, Laura. Please.
No, I can't stop. My children are here.
We're all going to America. All the family.
I write books now, you know. What do
you do? Me. Nothing. Have you got children?
No.
You look unhappy, Jenny. At school, you were
beautiful and good at everything.
And now you are older with no work
and no children. Oh, dear. What? Laura. Why
did you say that?
I have to go now.
What? What's that name on your bag?
Henry Gilbert Lawson.
I know you now. Gilbert. You are Gilbert
when he was 20 years old.
But why are you here? Oh, no.
What's that?
Seemed three. Jenny learns about Gilbert. There are
four people at the check-in.
Woman one, woman two, a man, and Jenny's
father. They're waiting.
A British Airways man is looking at father's
plane ticket. Jenny runs in.
Excuse me. Oh, father. What are you doing
here?
Jenny's smile. Be happy. What?
Hey, I was here before you. I was
in front of you too. Are you okay,
Lav? She's white in the face. Excuse me.
Can you wait, please? No. My name is
Jenny Lawson.
Ah, Mrs. Lawson. We phoned you at home.
There was no answer.
Mrs. Lawson, I'm sorry, but Mr. Lawson's plane
crashed in the sea. He's dead. Oh, no.
Seemed four. Jenny understands everything. Jenny's father and
mother and Jenny are all sitting at a
table.
They all died. All the people on the
plane. Oh, Jenny.
Your mother and I are so sorry, my
love. Thank you. Why were you at the
airport, father?
Me? I wasn't at the airport. Yes, you
were. You were at the British Airways check
-in desk.
You said be happy, then you left. No.
Wait a minute.
Hello, Laura. Laura. This is Jenny Lawson. We
were at school together.
Laura, I saw you at the airport, remember,
and...
Oh. What is Laura saying? She said, I
wasn't at the airport.
Laura, one question. Do you write books now?
Yes. Thank you.
She writes books. Is that important? Yes. Laura
wants to write books.
So she writes books. And she's happy. At
the airport, father said be happy.
And Henry Gilbert Lawson said, be an actress
again. I understand. I understand now, too.
My darling husband, I'm going to be an
actress for you again. A good actress. Thank
you.
So sleep now, my darling.
A ghost in love, performed by Jenny Bryce,
Rupert Farley, Crispin Redmond, Patience Tomlinson.
A ghost in love, scene one. Brad sees
a ghost.
Brad and Jerry come into the hotel room
and put their bags down. It is a
hot day,
and they are wearing summer shirts. Brad sits
on a bed.
Man, I want to drink. 20 miles in
one morning. Are the bicycles okay in the
street?
In this little village? Oh, yes. Nobody steals
bicycles here.
How do you know? This is your first
time here. First time in England. Or am
I wrong?
No, you're right. But I remember this village.
I was here before, Jerry. I can feel
it.
Oh, come on. We were out in the
sun for five hours. You need to drink
some cold water, my friend.
This hotel opened in 1853, right?
Right. Brad, you looked at this book before.
No, I didn't. Hey, you know something? It's
115.
My dad died at this minute on this
day last month. Oh, Brad, I'm sorry. No,
no, it's okay.
I'm going to go back to New York
next week after our three weeks in England,
and I'm going to be Brad Davis of
Davis TV. Dad wanted that. Yeah. Hey, come
on.
Let's go out in the sun. Let's see
the village. Have a drink. Find some girls.
No, you go. I like it here. Here
in the room. Okay. Let's stay in the
room. Hey, there's a television.
Hmm. Not working. Oh, forget it. No. You're
Brad Davis of Davis Television, the biggest in
America. You must have a television. Look, shall
I go down and ask Mrs. Finch? You
stay here. You look
tired. Yeah. Thanks, Jerry. I am tired.
In 1760, the hotel was a house. A
family called Banister lived in the house.
One day, the 19-year-old daughter, Ellen,
I was never 19. I died at 18.
Yes. I remember you.
Hello, Ellen. Hello, Matthew. Why does your friend
call you Brad? Is that a name? Yes.
It's an American name. But you are Matthew.
And I'm going to call you Matthew. Always.
Oh, Matthew. I waited and waited and waited
for you. I love you so much. Do
you love me? Yes.
I think. Yes, I do. You think? Is
that an answer? After all these years? Oh,
Matthew. Matthew, do you remember everything?
No, not everything. I remember our love. And
you died. I remember that. I wanted to
die too.
And again, last month, I wanted to die.
Oh, Matthew, don't say that. Oh, Matthew,
I'm so happy to see you again. Ellen,
can I see you? Can we talk? Oh,
yes.
I want to talk to you about... Are
you okay, love? You look right. This is
not a happy time for Brad.
I'm sorry, love. Do you want some dinner?
I make the best dinner in the north
of England.
No. Thank you. Talk to me later then.
Right. The television.
It's okay now. Bye-bye, Brad. Bye, Jerry.
Have a nice time in our village.
Mrs. Finch, wait, please. Do you know about
the banister family?
Did you see the ghost? Ellen banister? Yes.
What? Brad, you saw a ghost? Oh, come
on. Oh,
Ellen's always here. She likes young men. She's
always looking for her boyfriend.
Matthew's his name, I think. Mrs. Finch, what
happened? How did she die? What happened to
Matthew?
You're interested, love. I can see that. There's
an old woman in the village.
Her name is Maud Anskum. She knows about
Ellen. You ask Maud.
Brad, this ghost, what did she say? She...
She didn't speak, Jerry. She said nothing at
all.
Seem, too. Brad and Jerry want to know
about Ellen.
Maud is a very old woman. Her hair
is white. Brad and Jerry are sitting at
a table with her in her house.
Ellen, banister? A bad, bad girl. When she
looked at someone, the next day, they were
ill.
So she was a witch? Yes. She looked
at animals, too. Then all the cows in
the village had no milk
in them. Do. Do you know this? How
do you know? How can you know? Oh,
it's in all the books.
Our village is famous because of bad Ellen
banister.
Seem three was Ellen, a witch? Brad and
Jerry are in Mrs. Morgan's village shop.
There are two men and three women in
the shop and Mrs. Morgan.
Yes? Are you next? Yes. Two coaks, please.
And two of those sandwiches? I'm not hungry.
Man, you must eat. You can't sit in
your room all day and wait for a
ghost.
That's six pounds, please. What ghost is this?
Ellen banister?
Yes. Do you know about Ellen banister? Oh,
people in our village had no money then.
Of course they stole things. And Ellen banister
sold them. She only wanted to help.
Was she a witch? Some people say that.
A witch? No. Of course not. The men
loved her.
She helped them, you see. Though women didn't
love her so much. She was beautiful, you
see.
Her boyfriend was the bad one, that Matthew.
It wasn't her.
Oh, what did he do? He stole things
from rich people. Then she sold them and
he took all the money.
He took all her money too. But she
loved him. Did he love her? No. He
had two or three women.
No, he didn't. He loved her. He lived
for her. Who are you talking about? That
witch Ellen banister?
She ate cats for breakfast. No, don't listen
to him.
Don't listen to these people, you boys. What
happened to Ellen banister?
You want to know that? Matthew killed her.
Scene four. Where is Ellen now? It is
nighttime. Jerry is sitting on the bed.
Brad is walking up and down.
Seven hours. We waited seven hours. Where is
she, Jerry? I said this before. I don't
know.
Just wait. She isn't coming because you're here.
Brad, I say again. One, I sleep here.
This is my room. Two, I am your
friend and I am not leaving you like
this. Jerry,
is this all a big laugh for you?
No, not now. I want to see Ellen
too. I want to help.
Okay. Thanks, Jerry. Sorry. Hey, here she is.
Ellen, Ellen, it's me, Brad. Matthew, man. Oh
man, it's all true. Ellen, please tell me
what happened in 1760. You must remember. No.
We sold things, you and me. Rich people's
things.
You stole them, remember? Wow, Brad, you were
Robin Hood. Sorry.
The rich people didn't like me. They said
bad things about me.
Ellen Banister is a witch. They said that,
but it's not true. Of course not.
Then one day they came for us. 20
men. What happened? We ran away. You found
a ship. A ship
going to America. You said, see you at
115 at the harbor. We can go away.
You and me.
And then what happened, Ellen? The ship went
early. I wasn't there in time.
You went on the ship. You didn't wait
for me. Oh no.
When I arrived, there were a lot of
ships there. I didn't know the name of
our ship.
I looked for you. I waited and waited
and waited. Ellen. Oh, Ellen, I'm sorry.
Then the men came. They put me in
prison. I died three months later.
And then I came back home. Here. And
I waited again. I waited for you.
I love you, Ellen. I love you too,
Matthew.
Scene five. What is Brad going to do?
It is dark. Brad is standing at the
window of the room. Jerry comes in.
Brad always has his back to Jerry in
this scene.
Do you want to die? Do you want
to go to Ellen?
Before today, the answer was yes. Matthew wanted
to die and go to be with Ellen.
Do you understand that? Yes. But Matthew is
dead and I am Brad now.
And what does Brad want? I don't know.
I'm thinking. Is there a train from here
to London tomorrow?
Yes. We can put our bicycles on the
train. We can get the next plane back
to America.
Do you want to do that? I don't
know. I'm going to tell you tomorrow.
Scene six. In love with a ghost. The
next day, Brad and Jerry are in the
street. Jerry has two bags.
Mrs. Finch is there too. You must leave
then. A week early.
Yes. I'm sorry. Oh, hello. It's the American
boys. Are you going home to America?
Jerry's going home, Mrs. Morgan. I'm staying here
at the hotel. I'm going to live here.
Always.
Brad, do you want to do this? Think
about Davis TV. What are you going to
do here in England?
I don't know. But yes, Davis TV needs
a good man. My dad worked for years
for Davis TV.
But now it has a good man, Jerry.
You. Me? Oh, thank you, Brad. That's okay.
I'm happy.
I'm in love. She waited for me and
now I'm here. I'm never going to leave
her again.
I'm not going to leave her alone.